questions of this would have to be when, where were
you when you heard the closing or the official
closing? I was in Isfahan, Iran. And I was a, quote,
civilian, unquote, instructor pilot working for
Bell Helicopter International.
We were training the Shah's Air Force.
And as an aside to that, I used to believe I could
teach a monkey to fly a helicopter if I had enough
bananas. But after my trip to Iran, I don't believe
that anymore. But I was in Isfahan the day it was
announced that the war was officially over. And I
can't remember exactly how I felt. I guess a little
bit of everything. A little happy, a little sad, a
little glad. Very cynical. Very simple.
And it occurred to me that the night before I had had
dinner at the Karush Hotel in Isfahan with two
Russian mining engineers whose acquaintances I
had made while I was there. That's when I began to
not hate Russians and just hate Communists. He was
a pretty nice guy. And they spoke pretty good
English. They speak no Russian.
But that's where I was at when it was announced. And
a lot of us, you know, we were all, most of us,
Vietnam veterans. And the gamut of comments were
flying around the place.
But I guess all of us were just a little bit relieved
that it was finally over. And we were all sad
because we knew we didn't win.
It's hard for us to say we lost it. We never lost a
battle. We just didn't win the war. But it wasn't
our fault. But that's another subject.
And I saw those two fine Russian gentlemen a few
days later. And they were very polite. and not
mentioning it. So I mentioned it. I said, did you
hear the war is over? And it embarrassed me. And
then we all laughed about it. And we went away.
I don't think the fool in Normandy ever hit me for a
couple of years.
Until I knew it was finally ended.
But over and never be over. On the ribbon we wear
that was given to us by the Vietnamese government,
a little green and white one, is called the Vietnam
Campaign Medal. And there's a little bar on it that
has a single date, 1960 until, and there's no other
date. 1975 is not on there.
And that pretty much says it. For a lot of us, in one
degree or another, it will never be over. I've been
very fortunate. I've come out of it. I know so many
others. It's destroyed their lives. And it got to a
certain point where they just couldn't recover.
But it was finished in the spring of 1975. It was
ended, but it's not
over. But I'll never forget where I was at when I
heard it. It was in a park hotel by the river in
Isfahan, the religious capital of the Persian
world.
You were saying that it's not over.
How do you feel that overall today, you know, how
America's treated you and treats the Vietnam
vets?
I met a guy here several years ago. It was a disabled
American veteran service officer with a DAV. He
showed me some figures that absolutely astounded
me. And I think about that,
and it's really sad. 258,000 known suicides.
Vietnam veterans. I mean, there were Clear cut, no
doubt about it. One way or another, they did
themselves in. Left a note, made it clear where. An
additional 250,000 highly suspect deaths. The
example he used to me was one that he had that was
fairly indicative of his arrest. A guy had taken
out a $100,000 insurance policy, double
indemnity accident insurance policy, and three
days later was killed in a single car accident on a
clear day, stoned sober, and hit a bridge button at
90 miles an hour. Left a wife and a couple of kids.
Left them with 100 grand. Things like that. That's
a half a million people.
I'm fairly well pleased with it. It seemed to be a
little patronizing at first, but thank God I got
over that. The main thing was that these $258,000
and then the additional $200,000,
for them it's too little, too late.
I mentioned patronized. I know a lot of people that
feel like they're being patronized. And slowly
but surely, hopefully they'll get over that. I
felt it too, and I still see it from time to time. I
know how to recognize it when I do see it, and I'm not
very nice in my reaction to it. I respond to it very
negatively, and I let the guilty individual know
real quick that I don't like to be patronized.
It's unfortunate that I don't have any control
over that. I couldn't be a little bit more
diplomatic about it because it really happens at
the most inopportune times. I don't particularly
care where I'm at or who I'm with. If I'm being
patronized about that particular thing, I unload
on them. I don't care who they are. I don't care what
the consequences are. And that's not right
either. And hopefully I'll get over that too and be
a little bit more diplomatic about it and ignore
the idiots when they do those things. But there's
so many people still out there that, I don't know,
they're swinging after the bell. They want
something else to happen to make it all worth it. To
make it valuable.
And they've been burnt so long and so hard that
the light just can't get through. On my own
particular... back when they started talking
about building the wall, the Vietnam Memorial.
There was a hole in the ground. It was black and
dark, ominous. I said, no, no good. But I look on it
now, I've never been there. I want to go. I can't
afford it. But I look on it now, and I hear what other
guys have had to say about it, and it's right. It's
perfect. Couldn't be any more perfect. When you
look at the names on that wall and see your own face
there.
And like Mason said, the day they dedicated it, he
saw his own face there and the rain was coming down
and the droplets were running down the wall and he
saw his face and the rain was like the wall had
tears. And it was, it overwhelmed me. So it does
seem to be perfect now. But back then when it first
started, to me it was very pessimistic. I was very
bitter. Very hard. Wouldn't talk about it.
Wouldn't let anyone in my shell. Wouldn't
forgive. Wouldn't lay it down. Didn't want to. I
wanted to sit there and say, you owe me. You owe me
big. But I got over that. I got through it. And I
accept it. And when someone says to me now, thanks,
Vietnam vet,
I say, you're welcome. Because all any of us ever
wanted was respect.
respect that we love this country as much as
anybody else does. That we were drawn into a thing
that was bigger than any of us and without a control
and no one,
no one knew what to do about
it. So I just say you're welcome. This is why I've
let you interview me about this. Because I really
believe now that the young people of your
generation want to know. Oddly enough, I'm in the
generation that's kind of on the fringe. I really
shouldn't have been there. I was in my late 20s. I
was 27 years old when I
went to Vietnam. Thank you. 41 through 68. Yeah,
27. On my 27th birthday. I was an old man.
Even when I was in flight school, I was the second
oldest one in the class. The other guy was 35. I was
27. Everybody else was 19 and 20 and 21. We were the
two old men. Pop and Grandpa, that's what they
called us. I really shouldn't have been there. I
didn't have to be there. People in my generation,
most of them weren't.
But it's that other generation. They're coming
now. And your generation wants to know what
happened to them. They want to know what happened
to their moms and their dads. They want to know what
happened to their Uncle Charlie.
Why is he that way? What happened with Uncle
Charlie? Why did my dad go away? Why did my dad come
back? Why is my mom that way? They want to know.
And it's up to us to tell you to pass it on. At least
you be condemned to repeat the past. Don't do it.
Don't let it happen again. There will be wars.
That's going to happen. Nothing you're going to do
is going to stop it. People have tried for
generations, hundreds of generations, to stop a
war, and all they've managed to do is interrupt.
And that's nice. A little period of peace and
prosperity off and on. But you're not going to stop
on this side of the second coming. It will not
happen. But you've got to have one. Do it right. Go
out to win. Go all out. Call it total war. Call it
whatever you want to. But make the enemy pay. Make
it more costly for him to conduct a war than it is for
you. It has a price. It's freedom that we enjoy. And
the price is paid in blood, not dollars. That's why
there's a red in that flag. That's what
it's for. You're saying what you want to leave, I
mean, as a note to the young people of the day, my
generation, maybe even the generation after me.
What else would you like to say to them? Like I said,
your generation wants to know what happened to
your dad's generation and mine from
what. And I feel it incumbent upon me from time to
time to tell you. Not to lecture you, but to teach
you. I was deadly serious about my chosen way of
life. I chose it when I was just but a child. My
earliest memory is when I was four years old,
standing on the railroad platform in
Gainesville, Texas, during World War II, seeing
an uncle of mine off to the battle in Europe on a
troop train. The excitement of that day and what
was going on the train soldiers and people and
everybody proud and one thing or another and just
the gamut of emotions marked my thinking and from
that early age i wanted to be a soldier
and i think it was planted in me before i was born so i
was very very serious about my way of life well some
people even think that i held the beliefs of the
centuries and that would come home with your
shield or on it. In fact, one dear friend of mine, a
fellow pilot,
he once described me as one who would be willing to
die for an idea or with it. Steve was being cynical
when he said, And he used to pick on me a lot about
things like that, but I took it as a great
compliment because he was right. He was
absolutely right. My whole being has been that. To
die for an idea or with it. This idea that we have
about the liberties that we enjoy is something
worth dying
for. I once heard a man say, You've got to stand for
something or you'll fall for anything. And that
marked my thinking also. But I had to make choices
like everybody does.
And my whole upbringing was stand for something.
Be counted on. You're one of many, but be that one.
And don't back off. Be honest in your decisions. Be
careful in your selection. But once you've made
your choice, stand with it. If you're wrong,
change it. If you're not, don't give up. Never,
ever, ever give up.
I sensed somewhere along the line that I really
came to realize that I'd been betrayed by the very
system that I was sworn to defend.
And as I've said several times, I became very
bitter and disillusioned about almost
everything that I believed in. From literally
from the Boy Scouts to God. I reached a point where I
trusted absolutely nothing that was not of my own
invention.
Nothing.
Only none of my inventions worked, whether they be
physical or mental. They just didn't seem to work.
I firmly believe, and I've got the evidence more
than any man would need, the god that i believe in
and his infinite mercy physically delivered me
from the torment that i was going through and in
doing so allowed me to begin to see glimpses of the
truth of what happened the betrayal of honest men
doing their duty as they've been taught by
generations before them is beyond my ability to
comprehend And I mentioned it a couple of times
already, but it is so enormous, this betrayal.
Vengeance can never wipe it
out. Only forgiveness can clear away that stain.
It must never happen again. And it is incumbent
upon your generation to see to it that it doesn't.